# kjvbot
Repository of work in progress by Timothy Beal, Case Western Reserve University, with patient instruction and tremendous help from Justin Barber and Michael Hemenway, and in collaboration with Micah Saxton and Pamela Eisenbaum. My main focus so far is kjvbot.py, a little markovian machine learner that autogenerates KJV Bible sounding utterances based on reading all or part of the KJV Bible text and then sends them as tweets to @KJVBot on Twitter.

Within the kjvbot1 and kjvbot2, the generation of the utterance is initiated by a randomly selected three-word biblical phrase (selected from a list of common biblical opening lines, like "Woe unto thee" or "The kingdom of") within all (kjvbot1) or specific parts (kjvbot2) of the KJV Bible text. The program then proceeds to build the utterance, as a Markov chain, from next word to next word, until it reaches its own full stop. If the autogenerated utterance is </= 135 characters, the function sends it to @KJVBot as an update via API; if it's over 135, it loops back to the top and starts over.

The markovizer programs fucntion very like kjvbots 1 and 2, except that they 

The following are brief explanations of each .py module (also provided as #comment at the top of each). The most fully developed version of each is numbered the highest (kjvbot2 and kjv_markovizer2).

1. kjvbot2.py: Initiated by a randomly selected three-word starting phrase, this kjvbot.py builds its utterance as a Markov chain based on a selection from the KJV Bible (the prophets, Gospels, Pauline letters, or Revelation) and then, if it is </= 135 characters, tweets it to @kjvbot.

2. kjvbot1.py: Initiated by a randomly selected three-word starting phrase, this kjvbot2 builds its utterance as a Markov chain based on the whole text of the KJV and then, if it's </= 135 characters, tweets it to @kjvbot.

3. kjvbot_beta.py: This initial stab at kjvbot.py generates biblical mashups as sequences of randomly selected formal elements from the prophets and Psalms and tweets them to @kjvbot.

4. kjv_markovizer2.py: This markovizer function builds its utterance as a Markov chain based on a three-word starting phrase and corpus (fileid) set by the user.

5. kjv_markovizer1.py: This simple module builds its utterance as a Markov chain based on a single starting word from the entire text of the KJV Bible.



